to wrap up this lecture let's compare
and contrast the types of inheritance
we've seen in this lecture so the first
is interface inheritance love it it's
wonderful like it's just a great idea it
tells you what to you can expect from
your subclasses so the superclass or the
interface says all lists must do these
things and allows you to generalize your
code and just a powerful simple way so
if we look at where'd you tell us for
example this longest method it works on
any list and not just any list but a
list that will ever be written so if in
a thousand years someone digs up my code
like my skeleton laying somewhere
holding a USB Drive and they find this
thing like yes this is good and they're
like well we don't have a list
implementation except this weird one cue
list well as long as it obeys the list
61b interface I don't know how it would
it'll still work that's nice there's
also this other kind of implementation
inheritance which tells you how how the
subclasses should behave can in this
case the boss is telling it's its
subordinates exactly how to do their job
so this is nice
because the boss can provide a general
working print method for example that
anybody else can use so if you make a
new list called queue list and you're
not quite sure how to print you at least
have that laying around it may not be
the most efficient way but it's there so
it gives you an extra level of control
you can decide to overwrite it not
overwrite it so that can be nice now in
both cases I want to point out a common
pitfall that you may fall prey to
anytime you use inheritance either kind
you should be specifying an is a
relationship and not a has a
relationship okay
what do I mean by that well an example
of good an is a relationship is this a
dog is an animal right I mean every dog
is an animal and likewise every S list
is a list 61b right that's great we
specify those things by contrast if you
read it as has a that's no good you
don't want to use inheritance in that
case so for example if I make a class
called cat in an implements claw it is
true that cats have claws but a cat is
not a claw now you might say that seems
weird like why would I ever even tried
to do that but here I think is a better
example or you can maybe see why you
might get tempted and
going to the dark side so if I say set
implements s list basically what I'm
trying to do is implement a set using an
S list so what's a set a set is a
collection of objects that can have no
duplicates so for example if I call AB
first potato AB first potato AB first
potato there would be only one potato in
the set so you can imagine trying to
override the s list methods to capture
that behavior whatever it may be and so
in effect
we'd be contorting an S list into a set
but it won't work the way you want it's
gonna end up being much more complicated
okay so that temptation to use an
interface or implementation inheritance
to capture has a relationships please
avoid it ok so that aside I actually
want to talk just for a moment more
about some of the reasons I'm a little
skeptical of implementation inheritance
why it can cause you trouble so one
issue that sometimes applies is it can
make it hard to keep track of where
something was actually implemented so
imagine you have a deep stack of like
six or seven implementations so you know
I animal and then I have like carnivore
and then mammal and dog or whatever it
can be hard to potentially keep track of
where things got overridden where they
got defined and so forth so a good IDE
makes that pretty much okay but it can
mean some extra complexity too well
sometimes you can get strange conflicts
so imagine you have like service and
certain like service or helper will say
say have a helper interface and an
animal interface and then you want to
make like a service dog class that that
implements something from or implements
both of those super classes those
interfaces in that case if there's a
conflict between these maybe they both
have the same default method there's
some complicated rules about resolving
those not such a super big deal in Java
usually but it's one thing that's a
little ugly about implementation
inheritance in general another one and
this is where it started to get worse is
it encourages overly complex code
because we do you have a hammer right
everything looks like a nail so whatever
you know about inheritance especially
when you're new to it you're gonna want
to go nuts with it possibly and when the
biggest mistake people make is this has
a vs. is a problem I actually had a
similar thing at my first
internship a long time ago where I just
learned about yak I think it was a lexer
one of those compiler writing tools
you've never used them probably but I
had a task and I managed funked oh wait
he was I forget it was like for
generating random parameters for some
program and it's so funny like I think
back at this piece of code and how I
managed to use the tool I had just
learned about an overly Byzantine way to
solve a problem inheritance especially
implementation inheritance and only
implementation and Tarrington side say
leads to this just gross behavior but
perhaps worst of all is this fact the
fact that it breaks encapsulation so I'm
not gonna tell you exactly what that is
we'll cover it in a couple lectures so
just for now understand there's some
philosophical exceptions I have to
implementation inheritance now I'm not
saying it's bad I mean it's a wonderful
tool there are cases where it saves you
tremendous amounts of time and it can be
very lovely but unlike interface
inheritance which for me is a clear win
implementation and inheritance could be
a little bit shaky alright that's it for
this lecture so I'll see you in the next
set of videos see them